# 08.23
## What's a SAS program
A SAS program is presented in a sequence and is executed **in order**.

## SAS Statement
Starts with a **SAS keyword**, ends with a **semicolon**.

E.g.

```SAS
data student2;
set students1;
run; /*run the code above it*/
proc print data=student2;
run; /*Ditto*/
```

SAS statements **are not** case-sensitive.

Should be well-indented.

## 2 main kinds of SAS statements

1. Used in `DATA` and `PROC` steps.
2. Global stmnt can  be used anywhere in a SAS program and stay in effecy until they are changed or edited.

# 8.25
## Parts of a SAS program

1. `DATA` step: 
```SAS
DATA new;
weight=35
```

2. `PROC` step:
```SAS
PROC print data=new;
```

3. `RUN` step:
```SAS
RUN;
```
## Results
Tree folder:
```
Results
|_  Print
    |_  Output list(log)
    |_  HTML
```

## DATA Step
Typically to **create** or **modify** the data.

`DATA` step are used to:
- Put data into a SAS dataset
- Compute values
- Check for and correct errors in data
- Produce new SAS data sets by subsetting, merging, updating, etc.

## PROC Step
Invoke or call **pre-writtene routines* that enable you to analyze and process the data in a SAS dataset.*

`PROC` step are used to:
- Print a report
- Produce descriptive stats.
- Create a tabular report
- Produce plots and charts
- Run stat'l analysis

## SAS Library
### Auto-start libraries:
`SASHELP`: Permenant, read-only

`SASUSER`: Permanent, contains SAS files in your personal settings.

`WORK`: Temporary, for files that do not need to be saved from session to session

*\*Often you create additional libraries to store your data files.*

## File types
1. Temporary files
- Deleted when you end the SAS session.
- Stored in work library and are referred to as `work.data_filename` or simply `data_filename`

2. Permanent files
- Stay on the PC when you end the SAS session.
- Named `libref.data_filename`, e.g. `sasuser.flight_data`

## Assigning a SAS library
1. `LIBNAME` statement.
    
    E.g. `libname MPS "D:\Software\SAS"`: creating a `libref` caled "MPS" and associate it with the library path.

    *\*Multiple `libref` can be pointed to one path. But one `libref` can't be pointed to multiple paths.*
    
2. GUI

    Right click anywhere in the explorer window, then click on **New Library**. Then specify the path.

# 8.28
## E.g. of assigning a library and create a data set
```SAS
libname MPS "*path*"
data MPS.new;  /*create a dataset named new in library MPS*/
    weight=35;
run;
```
A file named `new.sas7bdat` will be created under `*path*`

## Rules for SAS data set name
- 1-32 character-long
- Must begin with a letter (a-z; A-Z) or an underscore

## Structure of SAS data sets
1. A **descriptor** portion: 

    - gives general info about the file, e.g. name data and time created, number of obs. and vars.
    - Also contains info about attributes of each vars. in the data set: name, type, length, format (display), informat (read), label ...
2. A **data** portion:
    

## Reserved names
- For vars. list, SAS data sets, and librefs
- Data sets: `_NULL_`, `_DATA_`, `_LAST_`
- Vars.:`_N_`, `_ERROR_`, `_CHARACTER_`, `_NUMERIC_`, `_ALL_`

## Formats and infomats
- 5678 -> 5,678.00: **COMMA8.2** format (8 characters, 2 decimal place, separate with a comma)

- \$1234-> \$1,234.00: `$9.2`

## Missing data
- Presented by `.`

# 8.30
## Referring to file in other format
You can also use `LIBNAME` statement.

**Mechanism**: files->engine->SAS data library

**Syntax**: LIBNAME libref engine 'filename'
    
E.g. 1:
```SAS
LIBNAME rptdata spss 'D:\myspss.spss'
```

E.g. 2:
```SAS
LIBNAME wrk EXCEL 'E:\sheet.xls'
```

E.g. 3:
```SAS
LIBNAME wrk XLSX 'C:\data.xlsx'
```

## `PROC CONTENTS` statement
```SAS
libname MPS "path";
PROC CONTENTS data=mps.new;
run;
PROC CONTENTS data=mps._all_;
run;
``` 

Similar result using `PROC DATASETS`:

**Syntax**: 
```SAS
PROC DATASETS <options>;
    CONTENTS <option(s)>;
QUIT;
```

**E.g.**:
```SAS
PROC DATASETS;
    CONTENTS data=clinic._all_ NODS; /* NODS: no details*/
QUIT; /* Replaced by `run;`: always running, doesn't end/
```

## `DATASET` command `VARNUM` option
E.g. 1:
```SAS
PROC CONTENTS DATA=clinic.admit VARNUM;
RUN;
```

# 9.1
## `OPTION` statament
- Modify system options in the *listing output*.
- Is global, the settings remain in effect after exit.
- Write at the beginning.

**Command list:**
- `DATE|NODATE`
- `NUMBER`
- `PAGENO=`
- `PAGESIZE=` / `PS=` : How many lines to show in a page (including the title and header), must between `20-32767`
- `LINESIZE= `/ `LS=` 
- `YEARCUTOFF=` : Change the last date to interpret date value, default `1920` or `1926` or `1940` (E.g. `15` will be interpreted as `2015` but `41` will be interpreted as `2041`)
- `FIRSTOBS=` : To start processing at a specific obs.
- `OBS=` : To stop at a specific obs.
- `VALIDVARNAME=` : Naming SAS vars.
- `VALIDMEMNAME=` : Naming SAS data sets

E.g.

```SAS
option nonumber nodate ps=20;
proc print data=sasuser.admit;
run;
```

Equivalent commands:

```SAS
option firstobs=50 obs=100
proc print data=sasuser.admit;
run;
```

```SAS
proc print data=sasuser.admit;
(firstobs=50 obs=100);
run;
```
# 9.6
```SAS
DATA MPS.ex3_1;
INPUT id sex $ age income rating1 rating2 rating3;
DATALINES;
1 F 36 18 7 5 2
18 M 50 14 5 6 3
33 F 48 6 7 2 7
;
PROC PRINT DATA=MPS.ex3_1;
RUN;
```

Show lines: In the search bar on left side (command box), enter `nums` or simply `num` and `*enter*`.

## Text editor line commands(Only in traditional text editor)
`Cn`: Copy `n` llines (where `n`=a number up to 9999) from the **current** line.
`Dn`: Delete `n` lines from the **current** line.
`In`: Insert `n` lines from the **current** line.
`Mn`: Move `n` lines
`Rn`: Repeat current line `n` times
`A`: After(used with `C`,`I`, and `M`)
`B`: Before(used with `C`,`I`, and `M`)

E.g. 
```SAS
00001
i3002
00003
```
Insert 3 lines after line `00002`

```SAS
0ib01
00002
00003
```
Insert 1 lines before line `00001`


```SAS
0ib41
00002
00003
```
Insert 4 lines before line `00001`

```SAS
000c2
00002
0a003
```
Copy 2 lines after `00003`

## Block text editor line commands(Only in traditional text editor)
`DD`: Delete line block, type twice to specify.
`CC`: Copy line block, use `A` or `B` specify
`MM`: Remove ~
`RR`: Repeat ~
`A`: Ditto, used with CC and MM
`B`: Ditto, used with CC and MM

## Errors
SAS will skip the line with error and execute the line after it.